Permissions-Policy-Report-Only and Reporting API updates (#43853)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/reference/headers/permissions-policy-report-only/index.md

---
title: Permissions-Policy-Report-Only header
short-title: Permissions-Policy-Report-Only
slug: Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers/Permissions-Policy-Report-Only
page-type: http-header
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: http.headers.Permissions-Policy-Report-Only
sidebar: http
---

{{SeeCompatTable}}

The HTTP **`Permissions-Policy-Report-Only`** {{Glossary("response header")}} provides a mechanism for website administrators to report on violations of a {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy")}} without enforcing them.

> This allows testing and fixing of a [Permissions Policy](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/Permissions_Policy) issues before a policy is deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows testing and fixing of [Permissions Policy](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/Permissions_Policy) issues before a policy is deployed.
```

The syntax and behavior is exactly the same as for `Permissions-Policy` except:

- The policy is not enforced.

> - Policy violation report objects ({{domxref("PermissionsPolicyViolationReport")}}) have the value `body.disposition="report"` (instead of `"enforce"`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Policy violation report objects ({{domxref("PermissionsPolicyViolationReport")}}) have a `body.disposition` value of `"report"` instead of `"enforce"`.
```

See {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy")}} for more information (most of its content has not been duplicated below).

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Header type</th>
      <td>{{Glossary("Response header")}}</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Syntax

```http
# Single directive
Permissions-Policy-Report-Only: <directive>=<allowlist>

# Single directive with reporting endpoint
Permissions-Policy-Report-Only: <directive>=<allowlist>;report-to=<endpoint>

# Multiple directives, with and without server reporting endpoints
Permissions-Policy-Report-Only: <directive>=<allowlist>, <directive>=<allowlist>;report-to=<endpoint>, ...
```

## Examples

### Basic usage

SecureCorp Inc. wants to disable the {{domxref("Geolocation")}} API in its application.
Before rolling out the policy using `Permissions-Policy`, it adds the `Permissions-Policy-Report-Only` and {{HTTPHeader("Reporting-Endpoints")}} headers as shown below:

```http
Reporting-Endpoints: geo_endpoint="https://example.com/reports"
Permissions-Policy-Report-Only: geolocation=();report-to=geo_endpoint
```

> By specifying `geolocation=()` for the origin list, it is violation to access geolocation for all browsing contexts (this includes all `<iframe>`s), regardless of their origin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By specifying `geolocation=()` for the origin list, it is a violation for any browsing context to access geolocation (this includes `<iframe>`s), regardless of origin.
```

The `report-to` parameter indicates that reports will be sent to the endpoint named `geo_endpoint`.
The mapping between `geo_endpoint` and the URL where reports are to be sent is provided in `Reporting-Endpoints`.

A violation occurs when a page attempts to use the blocked feature, for example:

```js
navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition(
  () => {},
  () => {},
);
```

> The [report payload](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Reporting_API#reporting_server_endpoints) sent to the endpoint might look like the JSON below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [report payload](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Reporting_API#reporting_server_endpoints) sent to the endpoint will have the same structure as the JSON sample shown below.
```

This is the same as a report for `Permissions-Policy` except for the value of `body.disposition`.

```json
[
  {
    "age": 48512,
    "body": {
      "columnNumber": 29,

>       "disposition": "report", // A violation that is reported and not enforced

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "disposition": "report", // A violation that is reported but not enforced
```
